.Dd 03/05/2024     \" DATE
.Dt synctex 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Sh NAME
.Nm synctex
.Nd command line client tool to support the Synchronize TeXnology available in most TeX engines.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
\fIcommand\fP [\fIglobal options\fP] [\fIoptions\fP] [\fIargs\fP]
.Sh OVERVIEW
The Synchronization TeXnology is a feature of most TeX engines.
It allows one to synchronize between input and output,
which means to navigate from the source document to the typeset material
and vice versa.
.Pp
Run `synctex help' to access the built-in tool documentation.
.Sh TEX ENGINE OPTION -synctex=NUMBER
.Bl -bullet
.It
If NUMBER=0 or no option is given, no synctex file is created.
.It
If NUMBER<0, synctex files are text files.
.It
If NUMBER>0, synctex files are compressed with gz.
.It
If NUMBER&2, no .gz extension is used.
.It
If NUMBER&4, activate form support, useful for pdftex.
.It
If NUMBER&8, better file compression.
.El
.Pp
Use for example `pdftex -synctex=15 foo.tex' to activate all the options.
.Pp
Notice that LuaTeX option is `--synctex=NUMBER' with two dashes.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr synctex 5
.Xr tex 1
.Sh AUTHOR
The Synchronize TeXnology is essentially due to Jerome Laurens,
with useful suggestions by some well known actors of the TeX world.
In the TeX engines that support it (e-TeX, pdfTeX, LuaTeX...), the code
related to SyncTeX is mainly due to Jerome Laurens despite he is not
credited as one of the contributors.
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
SyncTeX support in TeX engines is maintained as part of TeX Live,
whereas the \fIsynctex\fP command line tool is maintained
as a separate project at https://github.com/jlaurens/synctex.
In particular, this project allows to embed the SyncTeX parser library
in desktop applications out of TeXLive.
.Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
Revised on Fri Mar 22 07:27:03 UTC 2024.
.\" nroff -man synctex.1 | less
.\"groff -man -Tascii synctex.1 | less
.\"To convert a man page to plain pre-formatted text (e.g for spell checking) use:
.\"nroff -man synctex.1 | col -b > synctex.1.txt
.\"To convert it to Postscript (for printing or further conversion to pdf) use:
.\"groff -man -Tps synctex.1 > synctex.1.ps
.\"To convert the man page to html use:
.\"man2html synctex.1
